# Are there things your assignments could do better based on reading this?

I could adopt the use of virtual machines. The existing course web page seems
to indicate that that virtual machines are also used as a submission system,
which is very clever.


# Are there things this assignment could do better based on your assignments?

I cannot say. I did design a very similar exercise myself where I provided a
tiny bit more scaffolding in the form Schneier's attack trees. Attack trees seem
to help in provoking a more thorough thought process. Perhaps these or some
similar, easy, tool could be helpful?

If I would adopt this exercise on my course, I would be slightly worried about
teaching the students to exploit security vulnerabilities. I know that this is
educational, but thinking that you actually need to demonstrate an exploit
before a suspicious bit of code needs to be fixed can be dangerous. Also, my
office is next to our residing werelawyers[^1] and I've been told that teaching
how to exploit vulnerabilities could be considered borderline illegal.

Although the sequence of steps in the exercise seems perfectly good, what is
the rationale of having black-box investigation before white-box? Could this
ordering be further exploited by making students explicitly study how well
their black-box investigation strategy discovers the errors that are revealed
by the white-box analyses?

# Any other comments on course structure?

The setup for the peer reviews with hidden student identities seems quite
complex and could be subverted by the students. From the assignment
description, it is not entirely clear why the secrecy is in place.  Could
relaxing this requirement make it easier to organize this exercise?

# Looking ahead to including these in a report, any writing comments?

One casual similarity between my work and yours is that we both eschew from
providing expert review on the intermediate steps of the exercise. Perhaps
this is just too costly for an ordinary course. Also, we both seem to slightly
de-emphasize grading the reviews themselves.


[^1]: Not a wolf, but just as dangerous.
