## Peer assessment

One related area of work is _peer graading_, which has peers read one
anothers' work after assignments have been turned in, and judge their quality.
There is recent work by Scott Klemmer's group here in this area that everyone
should be aware of:

http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2505057

This gives techniques for measuring the quality of peer reviewing against how
human TAs would grade the same artifacts, and judging how far off the students
are likely to be.

There is a recent (5 years) survey of peer assessment tools, that everyone
should be aware of:

http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/ref/10.1080/08993400903384844#tabModule

There is an earlier survey of peer review by Topping that we found predated
other uses of in-flow styles of review, but is still focused on peer review in
CS courses:

http://www.fau.edu/CLASS/CRLA/Level_Three/The_effectiveness_of_peer_tutoring_in_further_and_higher_education-a_typology_and_review_of_the_literature.pdf


A bunch of the related work of
http://cs.brown.edu/~sk/Publications/Papers/Published/ppkf-ct-multi-stage-in-flow/
is relevant here, as well, which provides somewhat of a survey of the peer
assessment literature.


## Learning by example

One goal of peer review is to have students learn from seeing one anothers'
work.  Some related studies:

Examples improving creative work:

http://hci.stanford.edu/publications/2012/RepeatedExamplesCogSci2012/RepeatedExamplesCogSci2012.pdf

Also the idea of a "contributing student pedagogy" is relevant here:

http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1473242

In PeerWise, students created and reviewed one anothers' multiple-choice
questions:

http://dl.acm.org.revproxy.brown.edu/citation.cfm?id=1404526&CFID=472720597&CFTOKEN=32164599



## Peer coaching/teaching

There's an entire field of "Peer Coaching", seemingly mostly used for
staff/teacher development and a bit in the business world:

Peer coaching: a practical model to support constructivist learning methods in the development of managerial competency

http://www.tri-coachingpartnership.co.uk/members/Misc/Evidence%20based%20Coaching.pdf#page=187

Impact of peer coaching on self-efficacy and instructional skills in TEFL teacher education:

http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0346251X06000327?np=y




Eric Mazur has been working on the idea of peer instruction for a long time
(here's a 10 years review), the idea is to have students explain solutions to
one another.

http://scitation.aip.org/content/aapt/journal/ajp/69/9/10.1119/1.1374249



Specifically about communication and the social climate in CS:

Communication in computer science classrooms: understanding defensive climates as a means of creating supportive behaviors, http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1060073



This paper explores benefits of fine-arts style classes, like talking about
your work more, being forced to present to peers:

What can computer science learn from a fine arts approach to teaching?  http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1047482


Motivating collaborative learning:

Collaborative learning: towards a solution for novice programmers. http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1379264


Survey/analysis of cooperative learning techniques:

Cooperative Learning in Computer-based Instruction. http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/BF02298155
Cooperative Learning Methods: A Meta-Analysis. http://www.tablelearning.com/uploads/File/EXHIBIT-B.pdf



Peer mentoring in general is brought up in socializing contexts.  It has a
different flavor than IFPR or even PR, because often the mentor is a different
kind of peer (senior mentors a freshman, for example):

A Mentor Program in CS1.  http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=544420




## Program comprehension

The WG on program comprehension is good to read, because it also shows what a
WG can accomplish:

http://dl.acm.org.revproxy.brown.edu/citation.cfm?id=1971687

They studied several works on program comprehension that could be good to keep
in mind while considering size/duration of review activities:

http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=169088
http://dl.acm.org.revproxy.brown.edu/citation.cfm?id=322685&CFID=472720597&CFTOKEN=32164599
http://www.cs.kent.edu/~jmaletic/Prog-Comp/Papers/soloway84.pdf
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016412128790032X

I'm not sure if there's much on program comprehension via talking about
programs; these seem to mostly discuss the cognitive process of looking at and
possibly running a program to explore it, but not understanding it by writing
an explanation of it.

## Industrial Peer Review Practice

Peer review in industry is typically in-flow.  To what extent are the practices discussed in this WG similar to those used in industry?  Which industrial techniques make sense in pedagogic settings?

Convergent contemporary software peer review practices
Peter C. Rigby and Christian Bird
ESEC/FSE 2013
http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2491444

## Communication and Explanation

The effectiveness of explanations (with oneself, with others):

http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.167.3716
