When instructing computer science majors, reviews of code can be
motivated by their resemblance to code reviews and similar
activities in the software profession, even though this may not be
the actual driver behind their inclusion in a course. When using
in-flow peer review with non-majors, such motivations might work
less well due to a disconnect between the students and the IT
profession. Regardless of the future profession, we view the
reviewing skill as an important one and note that reviewing comes
in naturally in a number of fields, from academic writing to
zoology, but also in the students' everyday lives in reviews of
movies and restaurants on websites, etc.

We frame in-flow peer reviewing as a technique for improving
learning based on timely feedback throughout a process. This can
be different from a means of quality assurance of a final
artefact, or a technique for learning to produce and consume
reviews, although these concepts arise naturally in a setting
where in-flow peer review is used. Arguably, knowing how to
produce and consume reviews is a useful skill in its own right,
regardless of the profession or the context in which it is used.
On this note, using reviews in classes with a diverse student
population will have the additional benefit of producing more
diverse reviews. In many cases, for example GUI mockups, this is
highly desirable. Therefore, whether or not a student will face a
review professionally is not a very relevant point.

Tests are a good thing for non-majors to review as they are often
less tangled with complicated "non-functional aspects" such as
memory management. We also envision that non-majors reviewing code
might reduce "code fear" by making code less magical and
establishing that code can "be wrong". This is also related to
“community of practice” in the sense that students are seeking to
join the community by taking a CS course in the first place.
Giving non-majors a sense of what code -- and programmers -- are
doing might teach respect for code and programming, but not
necessarily trying to make students into a programmer. Many
programmers are managed by non-programmers which will do well by
being able to relate to what they do. There are also cases where
non-programmers must be able to read or relate to code to make
sure that code follows complicated legal practises or financial
algorithms.

Finally, as an important aside, reviewing might help with
retention especially by removing the stigma of computer science
being an anti-social, “in-human” subject [see article Dave read].
Humanities people generally read more than they write -- as
reviewing is more like reading, it might feel more comfortable for
them than programming.
