# Are there things your assignments could do better based on reading this?

This is making me think harder about how to use expert feedback to
help students learn how to reflect on the work of others (and
ultimately themselves).

# Are there things this assignment could do better based on your assignments?

(less from my assignment, more something that occurred to me.)  I'm
wondering whether the peer feedback in the prototype stages could be
scoped in a way that offers more insightful feedback.  For example,
does it make sense to have peers say "here's what I was looking for
when I looked at your prototype" and "here's how you did on those
questions".  That might serve the dual purpose of helping a student
appreciate the perspectives through which other's might view her
work.  

Or, if peer review is just on the presentations, students could say
"here is what I would try to do to evaluate this if you had given me
the prototype to play with" -- this again is about reflecting on how
they assess prototypes, rather than just letting them say something
unstructured about the prototype.

My initial experience with in-flow peer review suggests that students
sometimes struggle with determining criteria for evaluating others'
work.  In an open ended project like this, I suspect you either need
to give more detailed criteria, or have students explicitly describe
the criteria they used in review, and have those criteria be subject
to expert feedback.

# Any other comments on course structure?

I like that students get to see how a project evolves across the
multiple prototype weeks.  Is there a useful way to leverage peer
review around that aspect?

# Looking ahead to including these in a report, any writing comments?

Could you clarify how the "demo of prototypes" part works (in the
weekly sessions)?  Does each team present to the class, just to the
group that will review them, etc?  What parts of this are done
asychronously, and what gets done as a class?  This is explained in
the "thoughts" section, but should get into the assignment description
that will go into the report.

